With Love and Trust and Friends and Hammers

I seek a quiet place.

The internet is too loud. It feels like Christmas with my family: everything
louder than everything else. My part will be slower. I've got no analytics.
I've got static files with hand-edited HTML and CSS, hosted on S3.

There will be no likes, no retweets, no favorites, no upvotes -- no whoring. My
internet should be a distraction, not an exhaustion.

I'm in a programming "boot camp". They're a recent phenomenon: three months of
intensive training leads to [hopefully] a job in tech. My previous career was
getting wasted and fucking off. I look forward to this change.

If you're curious about boot camp, the information comes hard and fast (TWSS). I
came in knowing a lot and I still struggle to keep up. We're learning Python. I
knew some; now I know a lot more. We're learning Django. I knew none; now I know
some. I'm generally skeptical of web frameworks -- they seem heavy -- but Django
provides some decent scaffolding, if you don't mind wading through the garbage
documentation.

I'm loving what we've done with JavaScript so far. It reminds me of my first
love, Perl5, in that you can do basically whatever you want and the compiler
will try to figure it out. I really love jQuery too. Given a choice I would use
raw JavaScript just for the fun of it, but jQuery is probably the best
abstraction in computer science: selector, do thing.

I've been praying a lot. It's a suggestion of my program that I give my will and
my life over to the care of a higher power as I understand it. My higher power
is a traditional, prayer answering, person-in-the-sky whom I choose to call God.
My higher power enjoys swear words. I characterize my higher power as loving and
caring.

A friend tells me prayer is the lowest investment, highest return action one can
take. He gave me a simple one to start with: "God, please guide my thoughts,
actions and course today. Amen." On a good morning I'll remember to do this on
my knees at the side of my bed, but it's not yet become a habit.

Prayer is the only habit I'm actively trying to build. Besides that, with
four-ish months sober, I feel as though I'm just watching my life put itself
together from the outside. First I was brushing my teeth every day. Then I was
brushing my teeth and showering. Then brushing, showering, and shaving. "Easy
does it." I've been exercising and returning phone calls. I've been on time to
things. I often make my bed, and do and fold laundry.

Boot camp is hard, but easy does it. I'll do the work. I'm going to learn as
much as I learn for how smart I am and how many hours a day has. I won't beat
myself up for what I haven't achieved. I've decided I can afford time for this
monthly blog. I think I can do a personal final project in addition to our
group's final project. But my life will have balance.
I lived an unbalanced life for ten years and it almost killed me twice.

I'm at the head of my class, really: helping, and even leading. Much of my
cohort has no previous programming experience, but I think my biggest advantage
is just knowing my way around a computer. Bash, vim, tmux, Chrome Dev Tools...
even just typing quickly give me a lightning-fast try/fail loop that allows me
to program intuitively -- just trying out some code because it seems like it
might work, without detouring into the docs. And I'm having a hell of a lot of
fun.

Welcome to my little blog. Easy does it.
